How Double-Fetch Situations turn into Double-Fetch Vulnerabilities: A Study of Double Fetches in the Linux Kernel
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Static approach that systematically detects potential double-fetch vulnerabilities in the Linux 
kernel using a pattern-based analysis. Developed a static analysis, based on the Coccinelle matching 
engine, that detects double-fetch situations which can cause kernel vulnerabilities. The approach 
found six previously unknown double-fetch bugs in *nix kernel. Previous work has not discovered any 
double-fetch vulnerability in Linux, FreeBSD or OpenBSD. 

26% of the Linux kernel source files belong to hardware architectures other than x86 which cannot be 
analyzed with Jurczyk and Coldwind’s x86-based dynamic analysis technique. 

We categorize the identified double fetches into three typical scenarios 
  - type selection
  - size checking
  - shallow copy

One double-fetch vulnerability has been found in the Android 6.0.1 kernel, which was already fixed in 
newer Linux kernels

Technically, a double fetch takes place within a kernel function, such as a syscall, which is invoked 
by a user application from user mode. the kernel function fetches a value twice from the same memory 
location in the user space, the first time to check and verify it and the second time to use it. within 
the time window between the two kernel fetches, a concurrently running user thread modi- fies the value.
(e.g., copy_from_user() and get_user())

Methodolgy:
Using a basic double-fetch pattern that identifies when a function has multiple invocations of a transfer 
function. Then we manually investigate the candidate files found by the pattern matching, to categorize 
the scenarios in which a double fetch occurs and when a double-fetch bug or vulnerability is prone to 
happen based on the context information that is relevant to the bug. 

we noticed that there are plenty of cases where the transfer functions fetch data from different addresses 
or from the same address but with different offsets. All these cases are false positives. Even though the 
analysis and characterization is not fully automated, it only resulted in 90 candidates that needed manual 
investigation, which took only a fewdays to analyze them, making the needed manual effort of our approach 
acceptable.

Then uses the information gathered through manuall analysis to analyze three different kernels: Linux, Android, 
and FreeBSD. They found six double-fetch bugs in total. Five of them are previously unknown bugs that have not 
been reported before (CVE-2016-5728, -6130, -6136, -6156, -6480), and the sixth one (CVE-2015-1420) is a 
double-fetch bug present in the newest Android (version 6.0.1) which is based on an older Linux kernel (version 3.18) 
containing the bug, which has been fixed in the mainline Linux kernel since Linux 4.1. Three of the five new bugs 
are exploitable double-fetch vulnerabilities (CVE-2016-5728, -6136, -6480). Four of the five are in drivers 
(CVE-2016-5728, -6130, -6156, -6480).

Limitation:
The nature of the analysis prevents the detection of double fetches that occur on a lower level, e.g., in preprocessed 
or compiled code. Double-fetch bugs can even occur in macros. A double-fetch bug can also be introduced through compiler 
optimization.